# Unsupervised Learning Analysis of Crypto Currencies: 'CryptoClustering'

This code applies K-Means and Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to cluster cryptocurrencies based on performance over 7 different holding periods. The analysis could be replicable to other financial series, with large amount of data thanks to the use of PCA, which reduces the dimensionality of the data. The analysis found the same number and composition of clusters (4) when using the original standardized data of 7 series of returns than when using its 3 principal components. These three principal components explained 90% of the variance of the cryptocurrencies' returns.

## Using this tool:
Technologies used in the analysis are Scikit-learn machine learning tools for the unsupervised data analysis. 

Other tools used: Cluster, StandardScaler, Preprocessing, Decomposition, Data Standardization, and Principal Component Analysis, Pandas, NumPy, hvPlot, Plotly Express, and Holoviews.

The analysis was done in the file titled [Crypto_Clustering_starter_code.ipynb](https://github.com/adampaganini/CryptoClustering/blob/main/Crypto_Clustering_starter_code.ipynb) which is a Jupyter Notebook with a pre-run code. You can go through it and see code as well as results. If you look to reuse the code, and do not have experience on Jupyter lab, you can refer [this tutorial](https://www.dataquest.io/blog/jupyter-notebook-tutorial/).

For information about K-Means, inertia definition, and other type of clustering techniques you can look [here](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/clustering.html).

## Analysis
The raw data is a snapshot of returns of various crypto-currencies over periods of time. These returns are standarized before starting the analysis. Using K-Means, we find different levels of inertia associated to different number of clusters (k), and plot results in a line plot. Then apply the Elbow rule to decide which is the more appropriate and more efficient number of clusters in which to classify the data. In this case, k=4 is the best choice, since after that the reduction in inertia for applying a new cluster get significantly reduced. Clusters are colored and compared between original data and principal components for several terms. 

## Resources:
Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.
